Docs admission control changes (#8498)
solo-io/gloo: docs/content/guides/traffic_management/configuration_validation/_index.md

---
menuTitle: Configuration Validation
title: Configuration Validation
weight: 60
description: (Kubernetes Only) Gloo Edge can be configured to validate configuration before it is applied to the cluster. With validation enabled, any attempt to apply invalid configuration to the cluster will be rejected.
---

Learn how to prevent invalid Gloo resource configuration from being propagated to the gateway proxies in your cluster to prevent bugs, service outages, or security vulnerabilities.

## Resource validation in Gloo Edge

> Kubernetes provides dynamic admission control capabilities that intercept requests to the Kubernetes API server and validate or mutate objects before they are persisted in etcd. Gloo Edge leverages this capability and provides a [validation admission webhook](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/) that ensures that only valid Envoy configuration is written to etcd.

Reviewer: It's not the 'Envoy configuration' that is written to etcd, it's the 'Gloo configuration'. The Gloo CRs are persisted in etcd, and the envoy configuration is built from that, and persisted in memory in the gloo pod

The following image shows how Gloo Edge validates resource configuration with the validating admission webhook before it is applied in the cluster. 

> <figure><img src="{{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/admission-control.svg" %}}"/>

Reviewer 2: General comment, I don't think the numbers align with the bullets below, like there are more bullets (15) than in the diagram (12).

Author: looks like I forgot to add the latest version of the image

<figcaption style="text-align:center;font-style:italic">Resource validation in Gloo Edge</figcaption></figure>

> 1. The user performs an action on a Gloo custom resource that invokes the validating addmission webhook, such as to create a Gloo virtual service. 

Reviewer: nit: Perhaps worth linking to our webhook helm template? In there, is the set of rules that when matched, result in a kube api server request being intercepted

   ```
   Error: UPGRADE FAILED: error validating "": error validating data: ValidationError(Settings.spec.gateway.validation): unknown field "validationServerGrpcMaxSizeBytes" in io.solo.gloo.v1.Settings.spec.gateway.validation
   ```

3. If the resource configuration passes the schema validation, the configuration is sent to the validation webhook server that is configured with the Gloo Edge validating admission webhook for semantic validation. 
4. The webhook kicks off the processes within the translation engine component to simulate the translation and xDS snapshot creation in Gloo Edge. 
5. The translation engine retrieves the current Gloo Edge snapshot and compares it with the changes in the new Gloo resource configuration. 

> 6. Gloo Edge tries to translate the resource into valid Envoy configuration and to store this configuration in a proxy resource. 

Reviewer: A proxy resources is the aggregate definition of gateway-type resources (gw, vs, route table, matchable http gateway, matchable tcp gateway). But it still contains "gloo" config.

A proxy resource is then converted into envoy configuration.

I'm not sure the right way to clarify your statement here, but I think it's find to just remove the "store this conifguration in a proxy resource" piece

7. Gloo Edge tries to process the proxy resource along with service discovery data to create the final xDS snapshot. 
8. If the proxy resource was succesfully processed, Gloo Edge creates the xDS snapshot. 
9. The validation result is returned to the validation admission server. 

> 10. By default, the validating admission webhook is set up in permissive mode and only logs invalid resource configurations without rejecting them. You can [enable strict validation]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/traffic_management/configuration_validation/admission_control/#enable-strict-resource-validation" %}}) to reject invalid resource configuration before it is stored in etcd. Optionally, you can also configure the webhook to reject resource configuration that resulted in a `warning` status. For more information about the validating admission webhook, how to configure and test it, see the [admission control]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/traffic_management/configuration_validation/admission_control/" %}}) guide. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe sub-bullets to make this stand out more?
```suggestion
10. The validating admission webhook accepts or rejects the configuration, depending on the following modes. For more information about how to configure and test the webhook, see the [admission control]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/traffic_management/configuration_validation/admission_control/" %}}) guide.
    * Permissive mode (default): By default, the validating admission webhook is set up in permissive mode and only logs invalid resource configurations without rejecting them. 
    * Strict mode: You can [enable strict validation]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/traffic_management/configuration_validation/admission_control/#enable-strict-resource-validation" %}}) to reject invalid resource configuration before it is stored in etcd.
    * Strict mode with warnings: You can also configure the webhook to reject resource configuration that resulted in a `warning` status. 
```

11. If the resource configuration is found to be schematically and semantically correct, it is admitted by the validation webhook server and persisted in the etcd data store.
12. Gloo Edge monitors the status of custom resources and picks up the latest Gloo custom resource changes from the etcd data store. 

> 13. The resource configuration runs through the translation engine processes that are described in step 5-8. If the resource is successfully translated, the resource's status is changed to `Accepted` and stored in the proxy resource. If errors are detected during the translation process, Gloo Edge sets the resource's {{< protobuf name="core.solo.io.Status" display="Status">}} to `Rejected` and omits the resource from the proxy resource. For reviously admitted resources that become invalid due to an update, the last valid configuration of that resource is persisted in the proxy resource. If the resource configuration is considered valid, but references missing or misconfigured resources, the validation status is set to `Warning` and the resource is added to the proxy resource. Each proxy has its own configuration. If the configuration for one proxy is invalid, it does not affect any of the other proxies. The proxy that the gateway and its virtual services are applied to can be configured via the `proxyNames` option on the gateway resource. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe also format into sub-bullets to make it more scannable:
```suggestion
13. The resource configuration runs through the translation engine processes as described in steps 5-8. The results depend on the translation and settings as follows.
    * Successful translation: The resource's status is changed to `Accepted` and stored in the proxy resource. 
    * Unsuccessful translation: If errors are detected during the translation process, Gloo Edge sets the resource's {{< protobuf name="core.solo.io.Status" display="Status">}} to `Rejected` and omits the resource from the proxy resource. 
    * Last valid config: For previously admitted resources that become invalid due to an update, the last valid configuration of that resource is persisted in the proxy resource. 
    * Warnings: If the resource configuration is considered valid, but references missing or misconfigured resources, the validation status is set to `Warning` and the resource is added to the proxy resource. 
    * Multiple proxies: Each proxy has its own configuration. If the configuration for one proxy is invalid, it does not affect any of the other proxies. The proxy that the gateway and its virtual services are applied to can be configured via the `proxyNames` option on the gateway resource. 
```
